- Warning!
We are about to use Python
to destroy, obliterate data.
Please try this at home, in your lab,
like not in production.
(mellow music)
No, yeah, I'm being a bit dramatic,
big surprise, but
seriously, in this video,
we're gonna level up once
more, our Python skills,
more specifically lists,
and we're going to
learn how to obliterate,
destroy Python data
but really we're just
removing stuff from a list.
So, just that.
But it's still pretty cool
and a crazy valuable skill.
Quick coffee break before we start.
And if you haven't already,
check that link below
to launch our free Python
lab for this episode.
Seriously, it's a free
Python lab right here
in your browser.
Go click it, like now.
It's free.
And while it's loading,
can I show you something
I've been working on?
Check this out.
Here in the Hands On Python
for Networking Professionals
course on IT Pro TV.
I am learning how to build
my own subnet calculator
because all of us kind
of suck at subnetting.
See that series right here.
But if you suck less at
Python, you can become awesome
at subnetting by building
your own subnet calculator in Python.
How cool is this?
Ah, and speaking of IT Pro TV,
they are the sponsor of this entire series
and the reason it can
be free here on YouTube.
And they are my choice for IT training.
They are what I use to
learn stuff obviously.
And pretty much whatever
you wanna learn in IT,
they have you covered
from just getting started
with the A Plus to their latest courses,
like Windows Terminal
Skills, PowerShell Skills,
Hands-on Web App Testing.
They're constantly adding
stuff to their library
and that's why I continue to
watch them to learn new stuff.
And there's an added feature
to where you don't fall asleep
when you watch their videos,
which I think is pretty cool.
So anyways, check them out.
They've got virtual labs,
they've got practice tests.
They've got everything you
need to become awesome in IT.
Did that rhyme?
Kind of, a little bit.
I'm gonna go with it.
So check them out, link below.
ITpro.tv/networkChuck.
And if you use the code
networkChuck, you get 30% off,
forever.
So in case you're new here,
you and me, we're going camping.
You're coming, I'm making you come.
And in the last few videos
we've been putting together
our camping supplies list,
and you almost got us in trouble,
because we almost forgot,
and when I say we, I
mean you, toilet paper
and for me, a bidet.
But thankfully we were
able to add those supplies
with some methods, but
we got a bit overzealous.
We packed too much.
You see I'm taking my Tesla
because it's a Tesla and we
can't fit everything inside.
So, now we have to remove
things from our list.
Now I know what you're probably thinking.
Well, Chuck removing things
from a list is pretty easy.
Just go in here and start deleting.
No, yeah, I can't do that.
That's lazy.
We're gonna do it programmatically
with Python and skills.
Okay?
Sorry. I feel like very
aggressive in this video.
Must be all the coffee.
It's okay.
It is one of the side effects.
So here's our task.
We have to remove some
non-essential items from our list.
Now we could remove the
raspberry pi or ethernet cable
but no, too essential
so we can take away our
tent and sleeping bags.
Yes, that's what we'll do.
So, remove tent and sleeping
bags from our list with Python.
Now, just like we used a method
to add stuff to our list.
We'll also use a method to
remove things from our list.
So let's try this out.
The code we have right here.
Go ahead and run it and sure it works.
Cool.
All our supplies are
right here in the console.
Now just after we added
toilet paper and bidet,
let's go and do this, type this with me.
Supplies, our supplies list.
And then do dot clear the method
clear and then parentheses.
Oh not nine, parentheses.
Easy enough right?
Let's run the code.
What did you do?
The data, it's not there.
It's gone.
I told you just to delete two things
and now the whole thing's gone.
It's okay.
I know it was a bit nuclear
but I wanted to show you this one first.
It's just more fun.
So, if you wanna take out your entire list
just for some reason, you
can use the clear option,
the clear method, and it will do the job.
So clear is nuclear and notice up here,
it actually printed a
list with nothing inside
which actually brings
up a really cool point.
You can have empty lists,
which seems pointless, right?
But no, but it does come in handy
when you're programmatically
adding things to a list
but you don't have anything for
that list to have in it yet.
That was a really awkward
way of saying that.
But essentially what
you might end up doing
is defining a list like this
and that sucker's empty.
And then later on in your script
when you're doing something really cool,
which we will do later.
I can't show you it yet
but you'll start adding stuff to your list
using those methods we talked about.
So yes, lists can be empty.
Little fun fact for you.
So anyways, clear is cool
but we may not want to
eliminate everything.
So let's take that out.
A bit overzealous today, aren't we?
So, now let's try the most
intuitive method out there.
If you wanna remove
something from your list,
you might want to use the remove method
and that's what we're gonna do, remove.
So dot remove the color
changes, things change.
I love it.
Parentheses and then
here, how do we specify
what piece of data to remove?
We just simply call out that value.
So for example, removing
our tent and sleeping bags.
So let's try tent, that's it?
Then click run.
It's gone, no tent here.
Now one key thing to note
with the remove method
is that when we wanna remove something,
we specify the actual value,
the actual name of the data.
And obviously it has to be correct.
'Cause if you put instead put tents,
we're gonna get an error
'cause tents aren't there.
It's just tent.
So real quick, why don't you
try and remove sleeping bags.
Go ahead and add that code for
us so I don't have to do it.
Pause the video.
Unpause.
Okay, coffee break.
Here's how I would do it.
We'll do another remove method here.
Supplies dot remove and
same story as earlier,
parentheses, specify our data
which will be sleeping bags.
Just how it looks up there.
Now, if we run our code, bam,
tent and sleeping bags are gone.
Hey, you know, we kind
of just already did it.
Our Tesla is lighter.
We can get there.
It's fine.
Now notice this.
We can only remove one piece
of data with our remove method
which is important to remember,
'cause you may have tried this.
You may have tried to go, hey,
if I can just put a comma
there and put in tent,
it might work, but it
won't, you'll get an error.
Watch, error.
Now how to remove
multiple items from a list
is not the simplest thing to do.
And it'll be a concept to
cover later on on this course.
Now you probably assume this by now
but there's more than one way
to remove an item from a list.
Yeah, we have a remove
method and he's pretty great.
And instead of using the
value to remove stuff,
we'll use the index, which
is very handy and you know
this new method also has a cool feature
that you probably don't care about
but you'll care about it when I show you.
Okay, I, let me just show it to you, okay?
So let's remove our
remove methods real quick.
Just take 'em all out.
Obliterate.
Same story as before.
Let's type our supplies list dot
and then here comes the fun one type in
pop, pop, pop, pop, pop.
That's what it is.
That's the method, it's called pop.
That's kind of a fun one, right?
And then parentheses.
And now I mentioned, yes,
we're gonna use an
index to remove our data
instead of the value.
So, I want you to do this by yourself.
Knowing how indexes work
and how pop probably works,
try and remove our tent and
sleeping bags from the list.
Pause the video, go.
Unpause, coffee break.
With my first pop method
statement here, whatever,
I'm gonna remove tent.
And I know the index of tent
is going to be the zero.
Cool.
(keys tap)
That should do it.
Actually, let's run the
code and make sure it works.
Tent is gone.
Awesome.
I'm gonna do the same thing down here.
Supplies dot pop.
And I'll remove and actually
this is kind of interesting
because I didn't realize
this as I was doing it.
I'm gonna do zero here.
What?
Watch, watch.
I bet you it is gonna work.
Run, totally worked.
So tent and sleeping bags are gone
but why did you use zero twice?
Well, because when I removed
pop, the index changed, right?
That required a bit of
critical thinking, didn't it?
It was kind of fun though
it was like a puzzle.
So the first pop method, we removed tent.
So the zero index tent obliterated.
Now, after that happened,
sleeping bags was in the zero index
and we're like, okay, now we
wanna take out sleeping bags.
It's not gonna be one like
you might have thought,
it's gonna be zero.
That's kind of fun.
That's kinda a little fun puzzle.
If you got that right, let me know.
And also keep in mind how
your indexes will change
if you use multiple indexes,
indices, how do you say that?
I don't know.
Now pop is pretty cool because
of the way it removes stuff
by indexes, but it does
something else cool.
It has a little hidden feature.
When you remove something
with pop it not only just,
you know, takes it out, it will
also return that same data.
What does that mean?
Let's try it out.
Let's just demonstrate that sucker.
What we're gonna do real quick
is actually just surround
that supplies dot pop zero
with a print statement.
Let's do that.
So we'll print open parenthesis
and then closing parenthesis
over here at the end.
So, now we're gonna print the
return of this program here,
this little script.
Let's try it out, run.
Did you see that?
Look at that up here before
we printed the entire list
it just printed tent
because the pop method
will return that data that we're deleting,
which is kind of cool.
It's like a combo move.
Bam, delete, bam, let me
show you what I just deleted.
One, two punch, I love it.
Now you might be thinking,
well, what's the point of that?
That seems pointless.
Well, you might want to, you know
just have a confirmation of
something you delete, right?
That's handy.
So, for example, I might do this.
I'll print this item was just deleted
and then I'll add that string I just made
to the return of that pop method.
So now if I run the code, run.
I get this nice little output
about something I just did.
This item was just deleted.
It was tent and it was also just deleted.
Like that's cool.
One, two punch.
Take yourself a quick coffee break
'cause you just obliterated some data.
We dropped a nuclear bomb
with the clear method,
just taking out the entire list.
We then removed one item at
a time with the remove method
but we gotta specify the value
and then we popped one
out using the index.
Pop!
Which will also return the
data that we just deleted,
which is kind of handy.
Now there's something weird,
something that's just like a list,
almost identical to it, but it's faster.
It's almost better in every way
as far as running programs,
it's something called a tuple.
What?
Sounds weird.
Now, if you don't wanna wait,
I already have this
next episode ready to go
locked and loaded on
Network Chuck Academy.
And if you wanna get some extra practice
with all the stuff we just learned,
because you do need that
practice to cement that knowledge
into your brain, it's
all about repetition.
If you don't use it, you'll lose it.
So check on Network Chuck Academy,
where I've got some extra quizzes and labs
to get yourself practiced up in Python.
I can't talk anymore.
Oh, and also have you hacked
the YouTube algorithm today?
Let's make sure you do.
Hit that like button, notification
bell, comment, subscribe.
That's it, everything, yeah.
That's right, because you
gotta hack YouTube today.
Ethically of course.
Yeah, that's pretty much all I have.
I'll catch you guys next time.
(mellow music)